= Tryouts - v0.6 BETA

Tryouts is a high-level testing library for your command-line applications and Ruby codes.

NOTE: The DSL syntax has changed significantly from 0.5 and command-line app testing is currently disabled. 

== Syntax

Tryouts is a bit different than other testing libraries. Test definitions are organized in a similar way as Shoulda tests (although the keywords in the syntax are different). 

=== Terminology

* Tryout: a set of drills (just like basketball tryouts is a set of drills)
* Drill: a single test. 
* Dream: the expected outcome of a drill. There's always one or more dream per drill. 
* Drill Sergeant: The class responsible for executing a drill. One of: api, :benchmark

== Examples

Tryouts employs the same approach for testing Ruby codes. The return value of the drill block is compared to the expectation defined by the dream. Here is an example of including dreams inside the tryout definition. 

=== Testing Ruby Codes

    library :caesars, "../path/to/caesars/lib"

    tryouts "Common Usage" do
    
      # This drill block should return 3.
      drill "Maths R Us", 3 do
        12 / 4
      end
      
      # You can specify a method to execute
      # on the return value of the drill block. 
      drill "We want a symbol", Symbol, :class do
        orange.methods.first
      end
      
      # Dreams can also be specified explicitly which is
      # important b/c it's possible to specify multiple.
      dream Array, :class
      dream [:a, :b, :c]
      drill "Should return a list of 3" do
        Letters.list(3)
      end
      
      # Drills can pass based on an exception too.
      dream NameError, :exception
      drill "Something failed" do
        raise NameError
      end
      
      # We can even put simple drills on a single line. 
      drill "Santa's postal code", 'H0H 0H0', /\w\d\w \d\w\d/, :match
      
    end


=== Benchmarks

You can also use Tryouts to run benchmarks using a second parameter to the tryout method. This parameter determines which drill sergeant to use. 

   tryouts "Benchmark examples", :benchmark do
     
     # We create an Array and store it in a class
     # variable so it's available to other drills
     drill "Create test array" do
       @@array = (1..100000).map { rand }
     end
     
     dream 3.0, :mean        # The mean should be <= 3.0 seconds
     dream 0.1, :sdev        # and the standard deviation <= 0.1
     drill("Array sort!") { @@array.dup.sort! }
     
     # You can also include a dream inline
     drill("Array sort", 3.0, :mean) { @@array.dup.sort }
     
     # The 3rd argument is the number of times to 
     # execute the drill block. The mean and sdev
     # are calculate based on all iterations. The
     # default is 5. 
     dream 0.1, :sdev, 25    
     drill("Array sort") { @@array.dup.sort }
      
   end

The drill blocks for benchmarks return Tryouts::Stats objects.


== BETA Notice

This library is very new (est. 2009-05-19) and has not been vetted by the scrutiny of time. In particular you can expect:

* The test definition syntax may change in future releases. 
* Unexpected errors. 


== On Threads

Tryouts does some funky stuff to make it simple to write tests. This "funky stuff" means that this library is <em>not thread-safe at definition-time</em>. However, once all tryouts files are parsed (or in OO-syntax, once all objects are created), this class should be <em>thread-safe at drill-time</em>. 

== More Info

* Check out the sourcecodes[http://github.com/delano/tryouts]
* Read the rdocs[http://tryouts.rubyforge.org/]
* About Solutious[http://solutious.com/about/]

== Thanks

* Everyone at Utrecht.rb and Amsterdam.rb

== Credits

* Delano (@solutious.com)

== Related Projects

* Context[http://github.com/jeremymcanally/context/tree/master]
* Testy[http://github.com/ahoward/testy/tree/master]
* Expectations[http://expectations.rubyforge.org/]
* Zebra[http://github.com/giraffesoft/zebra/tree/master]

== License

See: LICENSE.txt